Add interface guidelines for TextInput (#428)
primer/design: content/components/text-input.mdx

---
title: Text input

> description: A text input is used to set a value that is a single line of text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Text input is used to set a value that is a single line of text.
```

## Options

### Sizes

<img
  width="960"
  role="presentation"
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2313998/224445197-4b71262c-e1cc-4495-88d5-e46c6474d3cc.png"
/>

A text input can be made smaller or larger depending on the context it's being used in.

You could make an input smaller if it is being used in a tight space with other small elements. You could make an input larger if it's in an open space or it feels out of proportion with adjacent large elements.

### Width

<img
  width="960"
  role="presentation"
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2313998/224445198-7217e528-ed15-4fe9-aba9-264c7bc62e1b.png"
/>

By default, a text input will be given a default width by the browser.

However, you can render a text input to fill the width of it's parent element, or set the width to whatever makes sense for your use-case. When setting a custom width, consider the length of the expected value.

### Monospace

<img
  width="960"
  role="presentation"
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2313998/224445199-c8f27a2b-18e3-4ac7-9764-1d32b1fdc9c7.png"
/>

> The value of the text input may be rendered in a monospace font. Use this variant for inputs related to code. For example, setting a personal access token in a configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of the text input may be rendered in a monospace font. Use this variant for inputs related to code, such as setting a personal access token in a configuration.
```

### With a trailing action

<img
  width="960"
  role="presentation"
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2313998/224445201-7f81cf2c-992c-470b-b702-4b45d57c3234.png"
/>

A trailing action may be used to render a single action that affects the input. A trailing action is most commonly used for a button that clears the input.

> Ideally the trailing action button is an icon without a text label. It is also possible to render the button with a text label, but it should be avoided whenever possible.

Reviewer: is there a time when we would actually encourage this? trying to think of an example

Author: I couldn't think of an example either, but we support it in the implementation.
